---
layout: post
title: "Bullying"
date: 2014-01-26 03:19
categories: [Life, Bullying]
---

It’s only now, as I prepare to leave the place where I grew up, to start my next adventure in life, that I feel I can share my past with the world. My hope is that someone like me comes across this, and they know that they are not alone. They will never be alone. And there is always a positive way out.
<!-- more -->

I was always different as a kid. 

I'd rather have my head in a book, or be building cities with legos or taking apart all my toys to see what made them tick. Than running around a sports field or watching sports.

When I started school, I was reasonably intelligent, mostly due to the amount of reading I had done (I was the type of person who would read an encyclopaedia just as often as I'd read a novel, and I read a lot.). This meant that for the first couple of years, I understood what was going on and didn't really get when other people where struggling. 

This was fine at my first school, where I'd known the people since I was very young and had made good friends. However, half way through year 1, my parents sent me to a school on the opposite side of our city whereby things rapidly deteriorated. 

I never fit in there. 

Although I was accepted for the first few months, as they matured and we entered year two, my life began to change into a living hell.

When I was six years old, I'd cry myself to sleep at night.

I remember the bullying starting, it was limited to a few students who used throwaway remarks about my weight that I pretended not to hear. The unfortunate thing about youth however, is that childrens minds are like sponges, absorbing everything they can - which included my new name. So, very quickly, I became "fatty" or "nerd" to most of my peers. Always. They would chant it, in the most horrible voices. And the quips. The quips were the worst. "Hey fatty, don't jump, we might have an earthquake" stuck around for about 10 years.

Then, as we moved into year three, things became physical. I'd be casually punched, kicked, slapped, or pushed over and for the first time, I turned to the people there to protect me: the teachers. They did nothing.

I'd spend a lunchtime writing a letter explaining what happened, then the bullies might lose a break time. As you might expect: I soon gave up on the system - this didn't mean that the bullies gave up on their fight for self inflation. 

Around this time, I discovered programming, and it empowered me to create my own virtual solace, my own worlds and adventures to  explore, free from the hatred of the real world. It offered distraction on the bad days, and enjoyment on the good.

Then, as if I needed more to differentiate me, I needed glasses. Another point for ridicule. 8 pairs a year in fact. Thrown over fences, torn from my face, thrown under cars, stamped upon. At this point, I even turned to god, this great deity that we spoke to every week. I tried every day. I begged. Oh how I begged for it to stop. That's when I realised that god is a fallacy, but if he's ever proved to be true, I'll never respect the mouse who let me rot to the point of near suicide. 

I remember one day, a group primarily made up of four boys followed me around, everywhere, poking and prodding - talking amongst themselves like I wasn't there, apart from when they invited others to join them. Tears, streaming down my face, I tried to get away, but they followed wherever I went. Salt stinging my face, I tried to escape, to climb out of the sinking whole, but it pulled me back in. 

By this point, I was probably 8 or 9, and I remember just wanting to crawl away and die. My nights were full of nightmares, may days living ones. My only solace being the few short hours a day in which I got to write code, a way to clear my head of the hate, to work towards something I loved and enjoyed. 

Then the teachers got involved. Not in the kind, supportive, defensive way. It became a running joke that any kind of fart came from me. Blemishes on the assembly room floor “Hey, Dan, did you sit here? - There is a burn mark on the floor, did you fart?”. The worst incident, when I wanted to run away from that awful place and be free from everyone in it came when someone claimed I had farted, and as the whole room burst out into floods of laughter, the teacher we had that day joined in laughing. She made me go around the room opening all the windows, as I did so, everybody watched and stared, carried on laughing, making comments as I passed.

Around this time, I became incredibly violent, lashing out at those who sought to hurt me, because I had no other ways of protecting myself. My mental barricade had long since been chipped away. I thought that if I could hurt my aggressors, or at least fight back, that I’d have some kind of mental peace. Instead I hated myself even more. I had added more things I hated onto my already loathed self. I had no options. All the pent up anger and aggression, locked inside.

More stuff happened, but it was mostly more of the same and I don't have time to write it now, but maybe one day I will share some me, the violence, anger and hatred continued, but I thought that secondary school would be a new hope.

It wasn't. 

It just continued in a bigger place for a few more years. 

I remember waking up every morning, physically shaking at the thought of rising. The thought of getting up, getting dressed and going to school. Some days I simply couldn't move with fear and I'd pull the duvet over my head to block out the world and hope that when I moved it, it would be Saturday, or simply pretending to be sick just to stay away from it all.

I remember being chased around the school with a stick. Because I didn't rush out of someones way. I remember being the one that everyone teased - because they could. I even began to hate my name: "Daniel Leslie Tomlinson" because whenever anyone remembered the middle, I'd be laughed around for as long as they could manage. They care not for the reason why, but because orally it sounds like the name of a woman, it creates a scab in which they can pick. 

I could go on forever with what went on, and maybe one day I will, but for now, I want you to know that things improved.

I realised that even though the pain had been so bad, I found peace in friends online, my closest friends now living in the far corners of the globe.

My advice is this: Find friends, they will help you get through, if you want to speak to me then my inbox is always open.

You can get through bullying. You can deal with it. You can pull through. And you can do it without resulting to harming yourself.
